[IMP] accounting: reconciliation models (#2851)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/bank/reconciliation/reconciliation_models.rst

.. _reconciliation_models_suggestion:

Suggest counterpart values
--------------------------

This type of reconciliation model immediately suggests counterpart values when selecting an entry,
which then only needs to be validated. This automation is based on a set of rules defined in the
reconciliation model.

.. image:: reconciliation_models/reconciliation_models_suggestion.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of a reconciliation model that suggests counterpart values in Odoo Accounting.

.. _reconciliation_models_match:

Match existing invoices/bills
-----------------------------

This type of reconciliation model automatically selects the right customer invoice or vendor bill
that matches the payment. All that is left to do is to validate the entry. This automation is based
on a set of rules defined in the reconciliation model.

.. image:: reconciliation_models/reconciliation_models_match.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of a reconciliation model that matches existing invoices and bills automatically
         in Odoo Accounting.

Configuration
=============

To manage or create new **reconciliation models**, go to :menuselection:`Accounting dashboard -->

> Configuration --> Reconciliation Models`. Alternatively, you can also open this menu from

Author: True, it's because "Accounting" is also a menu within the accounting app and therefore if a user were to go to accounting and then configuration, he wouldn't find it, because configuration is a menu itself not part of the "accounting" menu.

:menuselection:`Accounting dashboard --> Bank --> Drop-down menu (⋮) --> Reconciliation Models`.

.. image:: reconciliation_models/reconciliation_models_overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Open the reconciliation model menu from the overview dashboard in Odoo Accounting.

.. important::
   The first entry, named :guilabel:`Invoices Matching Rule`, is the one responsible for the current
   matching of invoices and bills. Therefore, it is advised to leave it at the top of the list and
   not to delete it.

Open the model you want to modify or click on :guilabel:`Create` to create a new one, and fill out
the form.

Type
----

> See :ref:`above <reconciliation_models_types>` for an explanation about the different types of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`types of reconciliation models section <reconciliation_models_types>` for an explanation about the different types of
```

reconciliation models.

.. note::
   If the *Documents* application is installed on your database, an additional
   :guilabel:`Activity type` field appears when :guilabel:`To Check` is ticked. Selecting the value

>    `Reconciliation request` implies that whenever you use this model, a :guilabel:`Request Document`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Reconciliation request` implies that whenever you use this model, a :guilabel:`Request Document`
```
I think we still need to use guilabels for field values

   window pops up to request a document from the user.

Conditions on bank statement line
---------------------------------

> Define here all the conditions you wish to apply for a reconciliation model to be applied. Depending
> on the :guilabel:`Type` of models you chose, different options are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define here all the conditions that should be fulfilled for the reconciliation model to be applied. Depending
on the :guilabel:`Type` of model you choose, different options are available.
```

> to apply for a reconciliation model to be applied

I would rephrase that. Feel free to use something better than my suggestion though ;)

.. important::
   If a record matches with several reconciliation models, the first one in the *sequence* of models
   will be applied. The sequence is simply the order of the models in the *list view*. They can be
   rearranged by dragging-and-dropping the handle next to the name.

.. image:: reconciliation_models/reconciliation_models_conditions.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Conditions for the reconciliation model to be applied in Odoo Accounting.

Counterpart values
------------------

This section comprises the values that are applied by the reconciliation model. If the value to

> reconcile needs to be written-off in two separate accounts, click on :guilabel:`Add a second line`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reconcile needs to be written-off in two separate accounts, click on :guilabel:`Add a line` a second time.
```
